AI Written SEO Content



Lots of people want to do AI written



text for SEO. One of the biggest and



most respected SEO blogs is doing just



this. It's search engine land and they



are putting up content that says that it



is written by AI. And this had me



thinking of a system for how to actually



do AI written SEO content, especially



for a blog, AI generated SEO blog



content or even AI generated page



content like a glossery. But what search



engine land did is super interesting. It



was shared by Glenn Gabe originally who



called out search engine land for having



this robots.txt piece. Super long guide



on a robots.txt file originally written



by searchbot. The name of that has been



changed to insight engine and it reads



like AI and it is AI but what they do is



they say it's edited by a real person



and then reviewed by another real



person. So we have three levels of AI

Three Levels of AI Content Review



content. three different levels that



tell you how to handle your AI written



SEO blog content. The first level is the



content is not reviewed at all. Not



reviewed by any humans, not edited by



any humans, just entirely generated by



AI and that's it and then put onto the



site, put onto the blog. Level two is it



is reviewed and edited only for accuracy



but not for writing. So it still reads



like AI. It's only reviewed and edited



for accuracy and it still reads like AI.



And that is actually what this piece



from search engine land is. It clearly



reads like AI, but it was reviewed and



edited for accuracy. And then the third



level, the most advanced level, it is



this highly reviewed and edited and it



doesn't even read much like AI. That's



the third level. All right. So, how do

Handling Different Levels of AI Content



we handle these different levels? What's



the system that we can use if you want



to put up AI written SEO blog content?



Let's start with the third level. Third



level, it's written by AI, but it



doesn't read like AI, and it's highly



reviewed and edited for accuracy. In



this case, I actually think it's totally



fine to just say it's entirely written



by a human author. If it's accurate and



it doesn't read like AI, there's really



no problems. This is the most simple the



most simple level. You're basically



doing things by the book, but it starts



to get complicated at level two, which



is again what search engine land did.



Reviewed and edited for accuracy, but it



still reads like AI. You see things like



m dashes. You see lots of buzzwords.



These are quotes from the search engine



land article. The AI revolution changes



everything we thought we knew. Or when



configured properly, robots.txt becomes



your secret weapon for crawl efficiency.



We see common words that Chacht uses



like embarked, delved, invaluable,



relentless, groundbreaking, endeavor,



enlightening, insights, esteemed. So



many of these words, so many of these



buzzwords in this search engine land



piece. If you want to learn, by the way,



how to humanize chatpt content so it or



AI content so it doesn't read like AI, I



have an entire episode on that. It's



called how to humanize chatpt content.



Episode 675 of this show. Lots of people



love that episode. But okay, what do you



do in this instance where you don't have



the time or the energy to make the



writing sound human, which doesn't



really take a lot?



replace the m dashes and replace the



buzzwords. But lots of people don't want



to do that. So what do you do in this



instance? And the way that search engine

Search Engine Land's AI Content System



land handled this was very good. You



actually say it was written by some bot.



You're owning up to the fact that yeah,



it sounds like AI because it was written



by AI, but then you're saying right



there that it was highly edited and



reviewed by humans. That's going to make



readers feel a lot better. Part of the



part of the problem, there's several



problems with AI written SEO blog



content or just AI written blog content,



but part of the problem is readers worry



that this is not going to be accurate,



that they are going to be getting



inaccurate AI slop. So by saying that



this is reviewed, you are quelling one



of the big fears that a reader would



have. And that's essentially what search



engine land did. Written by their AI,



edited by a human, reviewed by another



human. So that was very good. And then



okay, what about if it is not level one?



What if it is not reviewed at all? So if



it's not reviewed at all, it's just



completely AI generated, not reviewed or



edited at all. This is actually black



hat. It's against Google's rules. It's



mostly against Google's rules. Not



entirely, but it's usually when usually



when implemented, it is against Google's



rules. There are nuances, but yeah,



usually against Google's rules. So if



you're going to break the rules, you



might as well just lie and say it's a



human that wrote it. If you're going to



break the rules, go the extra mile and



and just say, "Yeah, human wrote this AI



slop." Alternatively, maybe you have the



stomach to publish the AI slop, but you



don't have the stomach for lying. And



that's understandable as well. And in



that case, you can just say it's written



by an AI author, but you don't have any



humans there for review or editing. So,



you just say it's literally written by



AI on your on your blog. I want to share



this because Search Engine actually



shared their system for making the AI



content. So this is from Kyle Atwater



Moley who implemented this on search



engine land and Kyle said, "We use



perplexity and semrush data to perform



initial research and create an outline.



Our content strategists review for



accuracy and make updates as necessary.



The first draft is written by Claude and



then goes to an editor. The editor can



review, make changes, and ask the system



to rewrite parts of the article as



needed. Just like with any editorial



process, this goes back and forth for a



while. When the editor is happy, they



pass it to the senior editor for review



and the article usually goes through



another couple iterations before we



consider it publish ready. That's it.



Still lots of humans in the loop. And



that doesn't even include the project



management, the graphics creation or the



uploading. All of which are done by



humans, too. Still lots of rigorous



review until we're happy with it. My



comment is if they're going to do all of



that, they should go the extra mile and



remove the M dashes and the buzzwords.



It's well known that M dashes are a



clear sign of AI writing. Buzzwords



nowadays are another clear sign of AI



writing. So, they should just add that



into into their system if they're going



to go through all that work. But what I



liked about the system, it reminded me



of uh last week I had or two weeks ago I



had this guy on Amos Bar Joseph on the



podcast and he shared how he went from



in 6 months 6 months ago he was at 2,000



LinkedIn followers. 6 months later, he



was at 33,000 LinkedIn followers. And he



went in those 6 months, he went from



zero annual recurring revenue to 1



million annual recurring revenue using



his AI generated LinkedIn posts. And he



shared on this episode of the show, that



was episode 814



of this podcast, how three people hit $1



million ARR in six months with zero



customer acquisition cost using AI



agents. And Amos shared his system for



using Claude to write these very



high-erforming organic LinkedIn posts.



And it wasn't like he just gave Claude a



single prompt and then Claude wrote the



whole thing and it took it took 5



seconds. It actually took him 30 minutes



to an hour per each post and he had an



entire project for guidelines on the



post. And so this system from search



engine land, it reminded me of that. But



I thought the system was cool and worth



sharing for people who actually want to



go and make lots of AI generated content



on their site. But again, go the extra



mile. Remove the m dashes and the



buzzwords. Something else that I like



about the search engine land approach.



And this is again from Kyle and he said



the content is for the forward



slashguide and forward/tools section of



our site only. It never has and never



will affect our news or contributor



sections. These are both new sections of



the site added about a year ago. So



these sections of the site, it's not the



blog which has loyal readers because



loyal readers don't want to feel like



they're reading AI slop. It's for



sections of the site where it would be



more acceptable to have AI written



content. Now again, I disagree with the



fact that it actually sounds like it's



AI written. If they're again, if they're



going to go through all that work to



make the content in the first place,



they might as well go the extra mile,



make it not seem like it's AI written.

Final Thoughts and Recommendations



But if you are considering using AI



generated content and it's only reviewed



for AC for accuracy, consider putting it



on a portion of your site where you're



not trying to have loyal readers. Loyal



readers again, they don't want to feel



like they're reading AI slop. But



overall, I thought this was this was



cool. This is going viral in the SEO



world. So, I said I have to share this



on the show. That's what to do if you



want to put up AI generated blog content



where it is either not reviewed at all,



reviewed and edited only for accuracy



but not for writing, it still reads like



AI, or highly reviewed and edited and it



doesn't read much like AI. And that is



everything that I got for you on this



episode of the show. This is episode 826



of my daily digital marketing podcast,



The Edward Show. 826 days in a row doing



this podcast. If you would like to learn



my method of SEO for getting paying



customers, for getting users, for



getting warm leads calling you up, that



is at compactkeywords.com.



This is my SEO course about how to do



bottom offunnel SEO. And yesterday I had



on Lars Lofgrren on the show. Lars



Lofrren, super respected search engine



optimization person, very well-known. He



was Neil Patel's first employee. He's



been around the block. He was there when



the term growth hacking was invented.



And at the end of the episode, it was a



90-minute episode. At the end of the



episode, I said, "What should every



brand be doing for SEO right now?" And



the first thing that he said was bottom



offunnel targeting. Bottom ofunnel



keyword targeting. I did not tell him to



say that. That is what he said. And this



course of mine, compact keywords, is



entirely about targeting, finding and



targeting bottom offunnel keywords.



Anyway, that's all for the show. If you



watch us on YouTube, thank you so much



for watching. If you listened on Spotify



or Apple Podcasts, thank you so much for



listening. I will talk to you again


tomorrow.